.Dd February 19, 2025
.Dt GITWORM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gitworm
.Nd jormungandr git repositories build sandbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm gitworm
.Op Fl SUr
.Op Fl C Ar path
.Op Fl t Ar toolchain
.Op Fl b Ar bsys
.Op Fl u Ar sysroot
.Ar tree-ish
.Op Ar arguments ...
.Nm gitworm
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Execute a build system driver script
.Pq Ar bsys
inside a sandbox dedicated for source code builds.
.Pp
In opposition to
.Xr orm 1 ,
which is meant to be used for iterative
builds and fast iterations,
.Nm
is meant for automation and testing.
.Pp
It directly extracts the
.Xr git 1
repository located at
.Ar path
.Pq or, by default, the current working directory
and
.Ar sysroot
in the sandbox from package archives. The archives
are atomically extracted in the sandbox, when the sandbox
disappears with the process, all extracted files are automatically
destroyed, making the procedure more resilient than manual removals.
.Pp
It relies on
.Xr git-archive 1
and
.Xr libarchive 3
for the extractions procedures. As the repository
image extraction procedure happens in the sandbox, if
.Xr libarchive 3
resorts to external executables,
then it will use the sandbox's binary
executables. So be aware of support
for both host system and toolchain.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl S
Mount sources with write-access. By default,
sources are mounted read-only in the sandbox. If the build
system doesn't support out-of-tree builds or require
installation of extra files in the sources directory,
this option allows write-access.
.It Fl U
Mount
.Ar sysroot
with write-access. By default,
.Ar sysroot
is mounted read-only in the sandbox. If you are creating
a system image on-the-fly, you might want to directly export
some libraries and headers.
.It Fl r
Usurpate 0:0
.Pq root's
user and group id instead of the default 1000:1000 credentials in the sandbox.
.It Fl C Ar path
Specify the
.Ar path
to the
.Xr git 1
repository to extract as the source directory. Current working directory by default.
.It Fl t Ar toolchain
Specify the
.Ar toolchain
mounted read-only as the sandbox root directory.
.It Fl b Ar bsys
Specify the
.Ar bsys
made available read-only in
.Pa /var/bsys .
.It Fl u Ar sysroot
Specify the
.Ar sysroot ,
a directory or an archive. Read-only by default.
.It Ar tree-ish
Argument forwarded to
.Xr git-archive 1 ,
tree or commit to extract.
.It Ar arguments ...
Arguments forwarded to the
.Ar bsys .
.It Fl h
Print usage and exit.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag
.It Ev GIT_EXEC_PATH
Path to wherever your core
.Xr git 1
programs are installed.
.It Ev ORM_DEFAULT_TOOLCHAIN
Set the default
.Ar toolchain
to use.
.It Ev ORM_DEFAULT_BSYS
Set the default
.Ar bsys
to use.
.It Ev ORM_SYSROOT
Set the
.Ar sysroot
to mount if none specified.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr orm 1 , Xr lndworm 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Valentin Debon Aq Mt valentin.debon@heylelos.org .
