.Dd February 19, 2025
.Dt LNDWORM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lndworm
.Nd jormungandr package build sandbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lndworm
.Op Fl ASUr
.Op Fl a Ar output-archive-format
.Op Fl f Ar output-compression-filter
.Op Fl t Ar toolchain
.Op Fl b Ar bsys
.Op Fl u Ar sysroot
.Op Fl s Ar src
.Ar output
.Op Ar arguments ...
.Nm lndworm
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Execute a build system driver script
.Pq Ar bsys
inside a sandbox dedicated for source code builds.
.Pp
In opposition to
.Xr orm 1 ,
which is meant to be used for iterative
builds and fast iterations,
.Nm
is meant for automation and packaging.
.Pp
It can directly extract
.Ar src
and
.Ar sysroot
in the sandbox from package archives,
and outputs a newly created archive with
either the sandbox's
.Ar destdir
or
.Ar objdir .
.Pp
The archives are atomically extracted in the sandbox,
when the sandbox disappears with the process, all extracted
files are automatically destroyed, making the procedure
more resilient than manual removals.
.Pp
As it relies on the host system's
.Xr libarchive 3
for the extractions and creation procedures,
it supports all archive formats and filters
supported by the host system's library version. Some
.Xr libarchive 3
formats and filters depend on binary executables
installed on the system. As the extraction process
happens in the sandbox, if
.Xr libarchive 3
resorts to external executables, then it will use
the sandbox's binary executables. So be aware of
support for both host system and toolchain.
.Bl -tag
.It Fl A
Use
.Ar objdir
to create the output package archive instead of the default
.Ar destdir .
.It Fl S
Mount
.Ar srcdir
with write-access. By default,
.Ar srcdir
is mounted read-only in the sandbox. If the build system
doesn't support out-of-tree builds, this option allows
write-access. Note that most modern build systems do support
out-of-tree builds, and you should create your driver to
support this. This option is only available as a last resort.
.It Fl U
Mount
.Ar sysroot
with write-access. By default,
.Ar sysroot
is mounted read-only in the sandbox. If you are creating
a system image on-the-fly, you might want to directly export
some libraries and headers.
.It Fl r
Usurpate 0:0
.Pq root's
user and group id instead of the default 1000:1000 credentials in the sandbox.
.It Fl a Ar output-archive-format
Override output archive format detection
from the output file name. Allows more
fine-grained format specifications, see
.Xr libarchive 3
for supported values.
.It Fl f Ar output-compression-filter
If
.Fl a
was specified, used to specify the desired filter
used in combination with the specified format, see
.Xr libarchive 3
for supported values.
.It Fl t Ar toolchain
Specify the
.Ar toolchain
mounted read-only as the sandbox root directory.
.It Fl b Ar bsys
Specify the
.Ar bsys
made available read-only in
.Pa /var/bsys .
.It Fl u Ar sysroot
Specify the
.Ar sysroot ,
a directory or an archive. Read-only by default.
.It Fl s Ar src
Specify the
.Ar src ,
a source code directory or archive. Read-only by default.
.It Ar output
Path to the created package archive on the host system.
.It Ar arguments ...
Arguments forwarded to the
.Ar bsys .
.It Fl h
Print usage and exit.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag
.It Ev ORM_SRCDIR_COMMAND
Set the
.Ar src
directory resolution command.
.It Ev ORM_DEFAULT_TOOLCHAIN
Set the default
.Ar toolchain
to use.
.It Ev ORM_DEFAULT_BSYS
Set the default
.Ar bsys
to use.
.It Ev ORM_SYSROOT
Set the
.Ar sysroot
to mount if none specified.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr orm 1 , Xr gitworm 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Valentin Debon Aq Mt valentin.debon@heylelos.org .
